AUDIT(2)		    BSD System Calls Manual		      AUDIT(2)

NAME
     audit -- commit BSM audit record to audit log

SYNOPSIS
     #include <bsm/audit.h>

     int
     audit(const char *record, u_int length);

DESCRIPTION
     The audit() system call submits a completed BSM audit record to the sys-
     tem audit log.

     The record argument is a pointer to the specific event to be recorded and
     length is the size in bytes of the data to be written.

RETURN VALUES
     Upon successful completion, the value 0 is returned; otherwise the
     value -1 is returned and the global variable errno is set to indicate the
     error.

ERRORS
     The audit() system call will fail and the data never written if:

     [EFAULT]		The record argument is beyond the allocated address
			space of the process.

     [EINVAL]		The token ID is invalid or length is larger than
			MAXAUDITDATA.

     [EPERM]		The process does not have sufficient permission to
			complete the operation.

SEE ALSO
     auditon(2), getaudit(2), getaudit_addr(2), getauid(2), setaudit(2),
     setaudit_addr(2), setauid(2), libbsm(3)

HISTORY
     The OpenBSM implementation was created by McAfee Research, the security
     division of McAfee Inc., under contract to Apple Computer Inc. in 2004.
     It was subsequently adopted by the TrustedBSD Project as the foundation
     for the OpenBSM distribution.

AUTHORS
     This software was created by McAfee Research, the security research divi-
     sion of McAfee, Inc., under contract to Apple Computer Inc.  Additional
     authors include Wayne Salamon, Robert Watson, and SPARTA Inc.

     The Basic Security Module (BSM) interface to audit records and audit
     event stream format were defined by Sun Microsystems.

     This manual page was written by Tom Rhodes <trhodes@FreeBSD.org>.

BUGS
     The kernel does not fully validate that the argument passed is syntacti-
     cally valid BSM.  Submitting invalid audit records may corrupt the audit
     log.

BSD				April 19, 2005				   BSD
