GETPGRP(2)		    BSD System Calls Manual		    GETPGRP(2)

NAME
     getpgid, getpgrp -- get process group

LIBRARY
     Standard C Library (libc, -lc)

SYNOPSIS
     #include <unistd.h>

     pid_t
     getpgid(pid_t pid);

     pid_t
     getpgrp(void);

DESCRIPTION
     The process group of the current process is returned by getpgrp().  The
     process group of the process identified by pid is returned by getpgid().
     If pid is zero, getpgid() returns the process group of the current
     process.

     Process groups are used for distribution of signals, and by terminals to
     arbitrate requests for their input: processes that have the same process
     group as the terminal are foreground and may read, while others will
     block with a signal if they attempt to read.

     This call is thus used by programs such as csh(1) to create process
     groups in implementing job control.  The tcgetpgrp() and tcsetpgrp()
     calls are used to get/set the process group of the control terminal.

RETURN VALUES
     The getpgrp() call always succeeds.  Upon successful completion, the
     getpgid() call returns the process group of the specified process; other-
     wise, it returns a value of -1 and sets errno to indicate the error.

ERRORS
     getpgid() will succeed unless:

     [ESRCH]		There is no process whose process ID equals pid.

SEE ALSO
     getsid(2), setpgid(2), termios(4)

HISTORY
     The getpgrp() function call appeared in 4.0BSD.  The getpgid() function
     call is derived from its usage in System V Release 4.

STANDARDS
     The getpgrp() function call is expected to conform to ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990
     (``POSIX.1'').

COMPATIBILITY
     This version of getpgrp() differs from past Berkeley versions by not tak-
     ing a pid_t pid argument.	This incompatibility is required by ISO/IEC
     9945-1:1990 (``POSIX.1'').

     From the ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990 (``POSIX.1'') Rationale:

     4.3BSD provides a getpgrp() function that returns the process group ID
     for a specified process.  Although this function is used to support job
     control, all known job-control shells always specify the calling process
     with this function.  Thus, the simpler AT&T System V UNIX getpgrp() suf-
     fices, and the added complexity of the 4.3BSD getpgrp() has been omitted
     from POSIX.1.  The old functionality is available from the getpgid()
     function.

BSD				 June 4, 1993				   BSD
